Based on the results from the testing conducted with the test logs found in Appendix F the understanding of how the software functions is needed before beginning the development of the games in order to take advantage of the features that are included in the two game development environments. 

Once these features are understood, which can be done through the development of a prototype game project similar to the ones created for this comparison, the two development environments are incredible pieces of software that can create a wide range of amazing game project as well as other types of project with Unity from animation to VR solutions. 

For the projects that were developed for this comparison, it can be seen through the documentation of ease of implementation and the speed it took to understand and complete the implementations that the two game engines share an interesting number of features that can result in similar or completely different final projects. While GameMaker has the wonderful, but sometimes restricting Drag and Drop block-based coding solution that can result in quick development of features using labelled blocks for implementing specific features onto Objects within the world, Unity features more than just the 2D view for creation of 2D and 3D game projects, with a wide range of assets that are built for both views of the game. 

Where GameMaker and Unity separate by a quite large distance is the development of the playable character, while in the end the controls are similar in how the code really is made up, GameMaker flies ahead in the support of a code editor within the software and therefore can directly help the developer out with descriptions of code that is being autocompleted as the developer types giving newer developers an better understanding of what something does. Whereas Unity uses a third-party solution, Visual Studio, to code in C# which wasn’t written directly for use in Unity and therefore might not contain specific descriptions on the code that is being autocompleted or suggested to the developer. In this case the developer might not know what the right option is to produce the working playable character. Therefore, in the case of the playable character, GameMaker has the better feature set to help out a new developer, this extends to the Drag and Drop with them being put into specific categories that give an understanding on what they can be used for within the development environment. 

For the implementation of features into the two games, while it may be hard to gauge the difficulty of building everything from scratch and coding every little feature that is used to detect the collision of the objects within the level itself, these components are usually available in some form or another requiring the knowledge of setting it up to function as intended by the original developer. The availability of these features to developers that may not have known how to develop them in the first place, or may have needed to develop the feature themselves and waste important development time on this feature can improve the morale of the developer(s). 

Whereas with GameMaker Studio collision detection is already written for the playable character and can be used in different ways to add in features that require this detection to function or action within the level. From a new developer perspective, this is a major benefit as it requires the development and research of one specific form of feature that can be reused for collision detection on something other than the ground tile layer within the game room, streamlining development. 

The creation of the level terrain is similar between the two development environments as they both use a tilemap and a canvas of tiles that can be painted onto the level and edited as the developer sees fit, allowing the quick creation of game levels through these two simple and easy to learn and use features. 

While GameMaker makes it easier to make the Tile Map within the Room in the editor, that may be the only thing that makes GameMaker better for tilemap based game creation in terms of level terrain creation. 